AWS Cloud History
2002 internally launched in Amazon.com
2003 Amazon infrastructure is one of their core strength . Idea to market.
2004 Launched publicly with SQS
2006 Re-Launched publicly with SQS,S3 & EC2
2007 Launched in Europe

Some website that use AWS
NASA
NETFLIX
DROPBOX
AIR BNB
Mac Donald
21st FOX Century
Activision


In 2023 AWS had $90 billion in annual revenue

In magic Quadrant for strategic cloud platform service AWS is top in leader ,below AWS
there is Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud, Oracle

-AWS Accounts for 31% of the market in Q1 2024(Azure is 2nd with 25%)
-Pioneer and Leader of AWS Cloud market for the 13th consecutive year
-Over 1 Million active user


AWS Cloud Use Cases:
-AWS enables you to build sophisticated , scalable applications
-Application to a diverse set of industries
-Use cases Includes:
  Enterprise IT, Backup & Storage, Big Data Analytics
  Hosting website, Mobile and Social applications
  Gaming



AWS Global Infrastructure:
AWS Regions
AWS Availability Zones
AWS Data Centers
AWS Edge Locations/ Points of Presence


https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/?p=ngi&loc=0

AWS Regions:
AWS has regions all around the world
Names can be us-east-I , eu-west-3...
A region is cluster(Bunch of) of data center
Most AWS services are region-scoped


How to choose AWS Regions:
(If you need to launch a new application, where should you do it ?)
-COMPLIANCE(Following rules or doing what you're supposed to do) with data governance
  and legal requirements: data never leaves a region without your explicit permission.
-PROXIMITY(How close something is to something else) to customers:
  reduce latency(Delay or waiting time before something starts)
-AVAILABLE SERVICES within a region: new services and new features aren't
  available in every regions
-PRICING varies region to region and is transparent in the service pricing page.

AWS Availability Zones:
- Each region has many Availability zones (usually 3 , min is 3 , max is 6)
  Example:
    If we consider Sydney
    . ap-southeast-2
      .ap-southeast-2a
      .ap-southeast-2b
      .ap-southeast-2c
-Each Availability Zones(AZ) is one or more discrete data centers with redundant power,
  networking, and connectivity. we don't know exactly how-many data center in region that
  is not disclosed.
- AZ are separate from each others , so that they're
  isolated (Alone or separated from others) from disasters
- This AZ are connected with high
  bandwidth(How much data can be sent or received in a given time) ,
  ultra-low latency networking.
- This AZ are linked together and form a region.



AWS Point of Presence ( Edge(The outside part or border of something) Locations ):
-Amazon has 400+ Points of Presence (400+ Edge Locations & 10+ Regional Cache)
  in 90+ cities across 40+ countries
-Content is delivered to end user with lower latency


Tour Of the AWS Console:

-AWS has Global Services
  . Identity and Access Management (IAM)
  . Route 53 (DNS Service)
  . CloudFront (Content Delivery Network)
  . WAF (Web Application Firewall)

-Most AWS Services are region scoped
  . Amazon EC2 (Infrastructure as Service)
  . Elastic Beanstalk (Platform as service)
  . Lambda (Function as service)
  . Rekognition (Software as service)


https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/regional-product-services/
